Update readme (#878)
langium/langium: README.md

</div>

---

Langium is a language engineering tool for [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) with built-in support for the [Language Server Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/). The framework is an all-in-one solution for building programming languages, domain specific languages, code generators, interpreters and compilers. It serves as a spiritual successor to the [Eclipse Xtext framework](https://www.eclipse.org/Xtext/).

* **Semantics First:** Building on top of a [grammar declaration language](https://langium.org/docs/grammar-language/), Langium enables you to build the abstract model of your language in parallel to its syntax. Langium parsers are powered by [Chevrotain](https://chevrotain.io).
* **Lean by Default, Customizable by Design:** Langium offers the infrastructure you need to build languages purely by defining their grammar. If that is not enough, you can fine tune every detail of your language using our [dependency injection system](https://langium.org/docs/configuration-services/).

> * **Write Once, Run Everywhere:** By leveraging the flexibility of JavaScript and the [Language Server Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/), a language written using Langium can run in all kind of IDEs, browsers or embedded in CLIs and server applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Write Once, Run Everywhere:** By leveraging the flexibility of JavaScript and the [Language Server Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/), a language written using Langium can run in all kinds of IDEs and browsers or be embedded in CLIs and server applications.
```

> [Learn how to use Langium in your project](https://langium.org/docs/getting-started/).

Reviewer: The same link is given a few lines below.

## Installation

Build your first language with Langium in our [online playground](https://langium.org/playground/).

> Alternatively you can use yeoman to generate a [sample Langium project](https://langium.org/docs/getting-started/).

Reviewer: I wouldn't call this an alternative, but rather the recommended approach once you're past the "playing around" phase and want to set up a project.

* [Advanced Guides](https://langium.org/guides/)
* [Playground](https://langium.org/playground/)

The documentation website is hosted in [this repository](https://github.com/langium/langium-website).

## Examples

We host a number of simple examples in our [main repo](https://github.com/langium/langium/tree/main/examples):

* **[arithmetics](https://github.com/langium/langium/tree/main/examples/arithmetics)**: How to create an expression language + interpreter.
* **[domainmodel](https://github.com/langium/langium/tree/main/examples/domainmodel)**: How to create a language with fully qualified name identifiers.
* **[requirements](https://github.com/langium/langium/tree/main/examples/requirements)**: How to create a Langium project with multiple languages.
* **[statemachine](https://github.com/langium/langium/tree/main/examples/statemachine)**: How to create a code generator.

More complex examples are available as separate repositories in [our GitHub organization](https://github.com/langium):

* **[lox](https://github.com/langium/langium-lox)**: Implementation of the Lox language from the popular book [Crafting Interpreters](https://craftinginterpreters.com/the-lox-language.html).

> * **[minilogo](https://github.com/langium/langium-minilogo)**: A language to draw logos. Shows how to integrate Langium in the browser.

Reviewer: The language is not named like that because the purpose is to draw logos, but it's rather taken from the programming language named [Logo](https://el.media.mit.edu/logo-foundation/what_is_logo/logo_programming.html)
